README.md, before:

# mp3tagger

## Overview

Command-line tool to:

- Apply ID3 tags to MP3 files
- Rename MP3 files to a consistent pattern
- List existing tags in MP3 files

This is an automation tool, built to support the way I manage sound files.

## Installation

After cloning the repo:

```
$ npm install -g
```

## Assumptions

A folder contains:

- Files for a single album
- An `info.txt` file defining metadata for the album
- (Optional) A `cover.jpg` cover art file

Subfolders will be ignored.

Files that don't have a `.mp3` extension will be ignored.

## Usage

### Tag files

To process files in the current folder:

```
$ tag .
```

To show what processing would occur for files in the current folder:

```
$ tag . --dry-run
```

#### `info.txt` format

Example `info.txt` file looks like this (case is sensitive):

```
ARTIST=King Crimson
ALBUM=Court of the Crimson King
YEAR=1971
GENRE=Progressive Rock
URL=http://allmusic.com/something
```

Note: The **GENRE** value should be text (and NOT a number), and should come from [this list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ID3v1_Genres).

#### Automatic detection of 'artist' and 'album' tags

If the album name or artist name is not defined in the `info.txt` file, we determine it from the path. The following patterns are checked in the path:

- Tilde delimiter: `/path/to/artist name ~ album name`
- Hyphen delimiter: `/path/to/artist name - album name`
- Parent/child path names: `/path/to/artist name/album name`

#### Cover art

If the folder contains a `cover.jpg` file, we assume this is the cover art image which will be added to all mp3 files in the folder.

### Show existing tags

You can also use tag to show existing tags for files. Tags will be taken from the first MP3 file (sorted alphabetically) in the given folder.

Usage: `$ tag /path/to/files --list`

## File renaming rules

This is what will happen automatically:

- Square brackets ('[' and ']') are converted to parentheses ('(' and ')')
- Leading/trailing spaces/underscores/hyphens are removed
- Consecutive spaces/underscores will be replaced with a single underscore
- Consecutive periods will be replaced with a single one
- Files are named beginning with a 2 character number (e.g., "05_Filename.mp3")
  - If files already begin with a number > 2 digits, that number is retained (e.g., "201_Filename.mp3")
- Each 'word' in a filename is capitalized
- If every file begins with the same string (at least 2 characters), it is removed
- If every file ends with the same string (at least 2 characters), it is removed
- All spaces are converted to underscores

## Exit Codes

| Exit code | Description       |
| :-------- | :---------------- |
| 0         | Normal exit       |
| 1         | Exited with error |

## TODO

See the [Github Issues](https://github.com/kpander/mp3tag/issues).

Commit message:

Adds --no-rename option to disable file renaming

README.md, after:

# mp3tagger

## Overview

Command-line tool to:

- Apply ID3 tags to MP3 files
- Rename MP3 files to a consistent pattern
- List existing tags in MP3 files

This is an automation tool, built to support the way I manage sound files.

## Installation

After cloning the repo:

```
$ npm install -g
```

## Assumptions

A folder contains:

- Files for a single album
- An `info.txt` file defining metadata for the album
- (Optional) A `cover.jpg` cover art file

Subfolders will be ignored.

Files that don't have a `.mp3` extension will be ignored.

## Usage

### Tag files

To process files in the current folder:

```
$ tag .
```

To show what processing would occur for files in the current folder:

```
$ tag . --dry-run
```

#### `info.txt` format

Example `info.txt` file looks like this (case is sensitive):

```
ARTIST=King Crimson
ALBUM=Court of the Crimson King
YEAR=1971
GENRE=Progressive Rock
URL=http://allmusic.com/something
```

Note: The **GENRE** value should be text (and NOT a number), and should come from [this list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ID3v1_Genres).

#### Automatic detection of 'artist' and 'album' tags

If the album name or artist name is not defined in the `info.txt` file, we determine it from the path. The following patterns are checked in the path:

- Tilde delimiter: `/path/to/artist name ~ album name`
- Hyphen delimiter: `/path/to/artist name - album name`
- Parent/child path names: `/path/to/artist name/album name`

#### Cover art

If the folder contains a `cover.jpg` file, we assume this is the cover art image which will be added to all mp3 files in the folder.

### Show existing tags

You can also use tag to show existing tags for files. Tags will be taken from the first MP3 file (sorted alphabetically) in the given folder.

Usage: `$ tag /path/to/files --list`

## File renaming rules

This is what will happen automatically:

- Square brackets ('[' and ']') are converted to parentheses ('(' and ')')
- Leading/trailing spaces/underscores/hyphens are removed
- Consecutive spaces/underscores will be replaced with a single underscore
- Consecutive periods will be replaced with a single one
- Files are named beginning with a 2 character number (e.g., "05_Filename.mp3")
  - If files already begin with a number > 2 digits, that number is retained (e.g., "201_Filename.mp3")
- Each 'word' in a filename is capitalized
- If every file begins with the same string (at least 2 characters), it is removed
- If every file ends with the same string (at least 2 characters), it is removed
- All spaces are converted to underscores

**Note:** As of v2.3.0 you can disable file renaming by passing the `--no-rename` option.

## Exit Codes

| Exit code | Description       |
| :-------- | :---------------- |
| 0         | Normal exit       |
| 1         | Exited with error |

## TODO

See the [Github Issues](https://github.com/kpander/mp3tag/issues).
